README.md, before:

# SaidIt

SaidIt is a [reddit open source](https://github.com/reddit-archive/reddit) continuation and fork with:

* critical configurations restored
* critical bug fixes
* admin user bans and ip bans
* configurable site branding
* configurable home page
* enhanced expandos/embeds: more media providers, direct media links, used in comments, sidebars and wiki pages

SaidIt customizations include:

* two dimensional voting where insightful is +2 and fun is +1
* public moderator logs
* chat integration with a custom [TheLounge](https://github.com/libertysoft3/lounge-autoconnect) web IRC client

Goals:

* easily setup your own saidit/reddit open source clone
* platform upgrades, longevity
* enhancements and quality of life improvements
* reddit API compatibility

---

## Installation

There are two ways to set up a saidit server: on a standalone physical server, or through a Virtual Machine environment (running within another OS such as linux, MacOS, or Windows) for development and testing purposes.

### Setting up a virtual machine

1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
1. Download the latest [Ubuntu 14.04](http://releases.ubuntu.com/14.04/) server .iso file "64-bit PC (AMD64) server install image"
1. Start VirtualBox and click 'New'
   1. Type: Linux
   1. Version: Ubuntu (64-bit)
   1. Memory Size: 4000 MB (minimum)
   1. File location and size: 30.0 GB (minimim)
1. Right click the new VM and choose 'Settings'
   1. Network: Adapter 1: Attached to: "Bridged Adapter"
   1. Storage: select the empty CD icon and click "Choose Virtual Optical Disk File" and choose the ubuntu server .iso file
1. Select the new VM and click 'Start'
1. Install Ubuntu and choose following options, but leaving all other options with the default selection:
   1. Username: reddit
   1. Choose software to install: select OpenSSH, but no others
1. Complete Ubuntu installation

From this point forward you can start your VM with Start -> Headless Start and connect via ssh as user 'reddit' if you wish, using a program like [PuTTY](https://www.putty.org/). Don't forget to shut down your VM by right clicking it and choosing Close -> ACPI Shutdown before shutting down your host OS or you may corrupt your VM.

### Setting up a physical server

1. Download the latest [Ubuntu 14.04](http://releases.ubuntu.com/14.04/) server .ISO file "64-bit PC (AMD64) server install image"
1. Download [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/) (as recommended by Ubuntu) and use it to write the .ISO to a USB drive
1. Once finished, put the USB drive in the server and boot to it
1. Install Ubuntu with the following options, but leaving all other options with the default selection:
   1. Username: reddit
   1. Choose software to install: select OpenSSH, but no others
1. When install finishes, remove USB drive and boot to linux

From this point forward physical access to the server is no longer needed and you can ssh in as the 'reddit' user remotely if you wish, using a program like [PuTTY](https://www.putty.org/).


### Configure DNS for reddit.local

To use your reddit server, you are expected to be able to resolve reddit.local and https://reddit.local. First, find the ip address of your saidit server by running:

    $ ifconfig
    # note the 'inet addr' for device 'eth0' or similar

Then update your `hosts` file on your development machine/host OS. For example, on linux with saidit server ip 192.168.1.20  run:

    $ sudo sed -i '1i 192.168.1.20 reddit.local' /etc/hosts

For Windows and MacOS see https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/27350/beginner-geek-how-to-edit-your-hosts-file/


### Install SaidIt

SSH into your saidit server

    $ ssh reddit@reddit.local

Install SaidIt

    $ wget https://raw.github.com/libertysoft3/saidit/master/install-reddit.sh
    $ chmod +x install-reddit.sh
    $ sudo ./install-reddit.sh

You should see success message "Congratulations! reddit is now installed." Do not proceed if installation failed with an error.

Now install some default data including users "saidit" and "automoderator" (password is "password"), default subs, sample posts, sample comments, and sample users.

    $ reddit-run ~/src/reddit/scripts/inject_test_data.py -c 'inject_test_data()'

SaidIt is now fully functional at https://reddit.local aside from chat and search. The [SaidIt Admin Guide](https://github.com/libertysoft3/saidit#saidit-admin-guide) has instructions for how to change your site configuration.

---

## Install Solr for search

SaidIt comes pre-configured for Solr search, but Solr and Tomcat are not installed yet.
 
Install Solr

    $ cd ~
    $ sudo apt-get install tomcat7 tomcat7-admin software-properties-common
    $ wget http://archive.apache.org/dist/lucene/solr/4.10.4/solr-4.10.4.tgz
    $ tar -xvzf solr-4.10.4.tgz
    $ sudo mv solr-4.10.4 /usr/share/solr
    $ sudo chown -R tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/solr/example
 
Setup Solr, install Reddit schema

    $ sudo cp /usr/share/solr/example/webapps/solr.war /usr/share/solr/example/solr/
    $ sudo cp /usr/share/solr/example/lib/ext/* /usr/share/tomcat7/lib/
    $ sudo cp /usr/share/solr/example/resources/log4j.properties /usr/share/tomcat7/lib/
    $ sudo cp src/reddit/solr/schema4.xml /usr/share/solr/example/solr/collection1/conf/schema.xml
    $ sudo chown tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/solr/example/solr/collection1/conf/schema.xml
 
Setup Tomcat for Solr

    $ sudo nano /usr/share/tomcat7/lib/log4j.properties
    # edit to set:
    solr.log=/usr/share/solr
 
    $ sudo nano /etc/tomcat7/Catalina/localhost/solr.xml
    # add content:
    <Context docBase="/usr/share/solr/example/solr/solr.war" debug="0" crossContext="true">
      <Environment name="solr/home" type="java.lang.String" value="/usr/share/solr/example/solr" override="true" />
    </Context>
 
    # have tomcat use port 8983 (see 'solr_port' in example.ini)
    # port 8080 is taken by haproxy
    sudo nano /etc/tomcat7/server.xml
    # edit to set:
    <Connector port="8983" protocol="HTTP/1.1"
 
    # Solr is missing some required stuff:
    $ sudo touch /usr/share/solr/solr.log
    $ sudo mkdir /usr/share/tomcat7/temp
    $ sudo chown tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/solr/solr.log
    $ sudo chown tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/tomcat7/temp
 
    # verify tomcat all good (ignore warnings):
    $ /usr/share/tomcat7/bin/configtest.sh

Start solr:

    $ sudo service tomcat7 restart
    # any errors in here must be fixed
    $ sudo cat /var/log/tomcat7/catalina.out
    # verify working, these should return html pages:
    $ wget 127.0.0.1:8983
    $ wget 127.0.0.1:8983/solr

Index site content and test:

    $ sudo start reddit-job-solr_subreddits
    $ sudo start reddit-job-solr_links
    # do a search on the site, verify working

---

## Optional: SaidIt Chat

In a production environments, irc and related services should be run by a dedicated unix user for security.

### Install unreal irc server

    $ sudo apt-get install make gcc build-essential openssl libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev zlib1g zlib1g-dev zlibc libgcrypt11 libgcrypt11-dev
    # UPDATE to the latest stable release
    $ wget https://www.unrealircd.org/unrealircd4/unrealircd-4.2.3.tar.gz
    $ tar xzvf unrealircd-4.2.3.tar.gz
    $ cd unrealircd-4.2.3/
    $ ./Config
    # Press [Enter] a bunch of times, press space to read the license, wait for configuration tasks
    # For "Do you want to generate an SSL certificate for the IRCd?" respond "No"
    $ make
    $ make install

Configure unreal:

    $ cd ~/unrealircd
    $ cp conf/examples/example.conf conf/unrealircd.conf
    $ nano conf/unrealircd.conf
      # change 'oper bobsmith' to `oper ircoperator`
      # change 'password "test";' to a unique password
      # add 2 more keys to section 'cloak-keys'
      # set 'kline-address' to a valid email address
      # set 'maxchannelsperuser' t0 50
      # in 'allow' block for ip '*@*' change 'maxperip' to 10

Also add a new allow block (after the '*@*' block):

    allow { ip *@127.0.0.1; class clients; maxperip 50000; };

in the final 'set' block 'Server specific configuration', near the end of , add:

    ssl {
        certificate "/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem";
        key "/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key";
    };

Also add the following before `ulines` for anope services:

    link services.reddit.local
    {
        incoming {
                mask *@127.0.0.1;
        };
        outgoing {
                bind-ip *; /* or explicitly an IP */
                hostname services.reddit.local;
                port 6900;
                options { ssl; };
        };
        password "my-services-password-1234";
        class servers;
    };

Also change `ulines` to:

    ulines {
      services.reddit.local;
    };

Setup SSL cert permissions, start unreal, and cleanup:

    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert reddit
    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert irc
    $ ./unrealircd start
    $ rm -rf ~/unrealircd-4.2.3*

### Install anope IRC services

This provides ListServ, ChanServ, etc.

    $ cd ~
    $ sudo apt-get install cmake build-essential
    # update version number to the latest stable release:
    $ wget https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.0.6/anope-2.0.6-source.tar.gz
    $ tar xzvf anope-2.0.6-source.tar.gz
    $ cd anope-2.0.6-source
    $ ./Config
    # press [Enter] a bunch, accept defaults
    $ cd build/
    $ make
    $ make install

Configure anope:

    $ cd ~/services/conf/
    $ cp nickserv.example.conf nickserv.conf
    $ nano nickserv.conf
      # set guestnickprefix = "guest" (for The Lounge autconnect feature)
    $ cp operserv.example.conf operserv.conf
    $ nano operserv.conf
      # NOTE: insecure if you allow outside access to IRC/6667, instead just change maxsessionlimit only and later run:
      #    /msg OperServ exception add +0 127.0.0.1 50000 Allow many localhost TheLounge clients
      # set defaultsessionlimit = 50000, maxsessionlimit = 50000 (since everyone connects from localhost)
    $ cp example.conf services.conf
    $ nano services.conf
      # set uplink::ssl to 'yes'
      # set uplink::port to 6667
      # set uplink::password to 'my-services-password-1234'
      # set serverinfo::name to services.reddit.local
      # comment out the botserv include, search for `botserv.example.conf`
      # change `nickserv.example.conf` to `nickserv.conf`
      # change `operserv.example.conf` to `operserv.conf`
      # change `inspircd20` (in `module`) to `unreal4`

add this oper section near the existing disabled ones:

    oper
    {
        name = "ircoperator"
        type = "Services Root"
        require_oper = yes
    }

start anope and cleanup:

    $ cd ~/services/bin
    $ ./services
    $ rm -rf ~/anope-2.0.6*

### Install TheLounge web IRC client

    $ cd ~
    $ git clone https://github.com/libertysoft3/lounge-autoconnect.git
    $ cd lounge-autoconnect
    # update to the latest autoconnect branch
    $ git checkout v2.4.0-autoconnect
    $ npm install
    $ NODE_ENV=production npm run build
    $ node index config
    # [ESC] : q to quit

configure TheLounge, SSL cert paths may need to be adjusted:

    $ nano ~/.lounge/config.js
    # edit to match:
    #   public: false,
    #   port: 2053,
    #   theme: "themes/zenburn.css",
    #   prefetch: true,
    #   prefetchStorage: true,
    #   prefetchMaxImageSize: 2048,
    #   lockNetwork: true,
    #   defaults { name: "saiditDEV", host: "127.0.0.1", nick: "guest", username: "guest", realname: "Guest", join: "#home" }
    #   https: { enable: true, key: "/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key", certificate: "/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem" }

add an intial user so the server will start:

    $ cd ~/lounge-autoconnect
    $ node index add firstuser
    # use a throwaway password, don't log to disk

start TheLounge:

    $ cd ~/lounge-autoconnect
    $ nohup npm start ./ > thelounge.log 2>&1 &

---

## SaidIt Dev Guide

### Locally mounting VM or server files

    $ sudo apt-get install sshfs
    $ mkdir ~/vm
    $ sshfs reddit@reddit.local:/home/reddit/src/reddit ~/vm
    # optionally unmount it later with:
    $ fusermount -u ~/vm

### Logging

    $ sudo tail -f /var/log/syslog
    > g.log.warning("hello log")

### Profiling

Set `profile_directory` in `development.update` to an absolute path and create the directory first. cProfile results can be [viewed with pstats](https://web.archive.org/web/20180706112510/http://stefaanlippens.net/python_profiling_with_pstats_interactive_mode/).

### Memory by process

    ps aux  | awk '{print $6/1024 " MB\t\t" $11}'  | sort -n

---

## SaidIt Admin Guide

### Updating configuration

    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ nano development.update
    $ make ini
    $ sudo reddit-restart

Override `example.ini` settings in `development.update`. Changes to section `[live_config]` can be applied with `reddit-flush` rather than `reddit-restart`.

### Updating/refreshing CSS and static assets

For production environments where `uncompressedJS = false`

    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ ./refresh-css.sh

### Set the default subs

    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ paster shell run.ini
    # paste the following, hit enter:
    from r2.models import *
    srs = [Subreddit._by_name(n) for n in ("pics", "videos", "science", "technology")]
    LocalizedDefaultSubreddits.set_global_srs(srs)
    LocalizedFeaturedSubreddits.set_global_srs([Subreddit._by_name('pics')])
    exit()

### Automoderator

Create a user and set `automoderator_account` in `development.update`

### Production configuration

SaidIt

- `development.update` settings
  - debug = false
  - uncompressedJS = false
  - db_pass = not-password, and update it in /etc/cron.d/reddit as well
  - Change the `[secrets]` section
- Change the password for installer created users `saidit` and `automoderator` (default password is 'password')
- If you want email, install something like postfix and enable `reddit-job-email` in `/etc/cron.d/reddit`

OS

- Ensure swap space is configured, check `$ free -h`
- Make sure you OS file limits are high, want > 1024 for `$ ulimit -Hn` and `$ ulimit -Sn`
- Configure fail2ban
- Configure the firewall, need at least ports 22 and 443 open

### Certbot/LetsEncrypt SSL Certificates

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:certbot/certbot
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install certbot
    $ sudo certbot certonly --manual --preferred-challenges dns -d you.net -d www.you.net -d m.you.net -d oauth.you.net
    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert reddit
    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert irc
    $ sudo chown -h reddit:ssl-cert /etc/letsencrypt/live/you.net/privkey.pem
    $ sudo chmod g+r /etc/letsencrypt/live/you.net/privkey.pem

Re-configure your services for your new cert:

    /etc/nginx/sites-available/reddit-ssl
    /etc/reddit/.lounge/config.js
    /unrealircd/conf/unrealircd.conf

Renew your cert every 90 days:

    $ sudo certbot renew

### SSL upgrade, for improved "Suggest Title" compatibility

#### Upgrade curl

Ubuntu 14 comes with curl 7.35.0. Upgrade it for improved SSL compatibility, particularly for "suggest title" and other remote fetching.

    $ sudo apt-get remove curl libcurl3
    $ sudo apt-get install build-essential
    # substitute version from https://curl.haxx.se/download.html
    $ wget https://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.65.1.tar.bz2
    $ tar -xvjf curl-7.65.1.tar.bz2
    $ cd curl-7.65.1
    $ ./configure --prefix=/usr
    $ make
    $ sudo make install
    $ sudo ldconfig
    $ curl --version
    $ cd ..
    $ rm -rf curl-7.65.1*

#### Upgrade python

Ubuntu 14 LTS provides python 2.7.6 but it's upgradable to at least 2.7.16 which modernizes SSL support.

WARNING: this currently breaks Cython dependencies in reddit PPAs/repos, so `install-reddit.sh` will fail with this upgrade in place. Don't upgrade until you have completed installation.

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:jonathonf/python-2.7
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install python2.7
    $ python --version

#### Rebuild reddit open source

    $ sudo reddit-stop
    $ sudo reddit-flush
    $ sudo apt-get install python-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev zlib1g-dev
    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ python setup.py build
    $ sudo python setup.py develop
    $ make clean
    $ make
    $ sudo reddit-start

### Application server tuning

Out of the box, reddit open source runs the 'paste' uwsgi server, a single process with threads that can't execute concurrently. You can effectively only utilize a single CPU core. The following example shows you how to add another paster server process for a dual core processor.

Add these lines to your `development.update`, section `[server:main]` and then run `make ini`:

    threadpool_workers = 1
    threadpool_spawn_if_under = 0

Then setup additional app server processes:

    $ sudo nano /etc/default/reddit
    # add line: export REDDIT_INI2=/home/reddit/src/reddit/r2/development2.ini
    $ sudo cp /etc/init/reddit-paster.conf /etc/init/reddit-paster2.conf
    $ sudo nano /etc/init/reddit-paster2.conf
    # change $REDDIT_INI to $REDDIT_INI2
    $ sudo nano /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg
    # in 'backend reddit' add: server app2 localhost:8002 maxconn 30

Repeat this process until you have (number of cores) to (number of coresx2) paster application server processes running. `Makefile` and `make ini` are modified to support this configuration. Finally:

    $ sudo reddit-stop
    $ sudo reddit-start
    $ sudo service haproxy restart

---

## Additional documentation

* https://github.com/libertysoft3/saidit/wiki
* [r/RedditOpenSource](https://www.reddit.com/r/RedditOpenSource)
* [r/redditdev](https://www.reddit.com/r/redditdev)

## See also

* [r/RedditAlternatives](https://www.reddit.com/r/RedditAlternatives)

Commit message:

use gunicorn not paster in production, roll back paster hacks

README.md, after:

# SaidIt

SaidIt is a [reddit open source](https://github.com/reddit-archive/reddit) continuation and fork with:

* critical configurations restored
* critical bug fixes
* admin user bans and ip bans
* configurable site branding
* configurable home page
* enhanced expandos/embeds: more media providers, direct media links, used in comments, sidebars and wiki pages

SaidIt customizations include:

* two dimensional voting where insightful is +2 and fun is +1
* public moderator logs
* chat integration with a custom [TheLounge](https://github.com/libertysoft3/lounge-autoconnect) web IRC client

Goals:

* easily setup your own saidit/reddit open source clone
* platform upgrades, longevity
* enhancements and quality of life improvements
* reddit API compatibility

---

## Installation

There are two ways to set up a saidit server: on a standalone physical server, or through a Virtual Machine environment (running within another OS such as linux, MacOS, or Windows) for development and testing purposes.

### Setting up a virtual machine

1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
1. Download the latest [Ubuntu 14.04](http://releases.ubuntu.com/14.04/) server .iso file "64-bit PC (AMD64) server install image"
1. Start VirtualBox and click 'New'
   1. Type: Linux
   1. Version: Ubuntu (64-bit)
   1. Memory Size: 4000 MB (minimum)
   1. File location and size: 30.0 GB (minimim)
1. Right click the new VM and choose 'Settings'
   1. Network: Adapter 1: Attached to: "Bridged Adapter"
   1. Storage: select the empty CD icon and click "Choose Virtual Optical Disk File" and choose the ubuntu server .iso file
1. Select the new VM and click 'Start'
1. Install Ubuntu and choose following options, but leaving all other options with the default selection:
   1. Username: reddit
   1. Choose software to install: select OpenSSH, but no others
1. Complete Ubuntu installation

From this point forward you can start your VM with Start -> Headless Start and connect via ssh as user 'reddit' if you wish, using a program like [PuTTY](https://www.putty.org/). Don't forget to shut down your VM by right clicking it and choosing Close -> ACPI Shutdown before shutting down your host OS or you may corrupt your VM.

### Setting up a physical server

1. Download the latest [Ubuntu 14.04](http://releases.ubuntu.com/14.04/) server .ISO file "64-bit PC (AMD64) server install image"
1. Download [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/) (as recommended by Ubuntu) and use it to write the .ISO to a USB drive
1. Once finished, put the USB drive in the server and boot to it
1. Install Ubuntu with the following options, but leaving all other options with the default selection:
   1. Username: reddit
   1. Choose software to install: select OpenSSH, but no others
1. When install finishes, remove USB drive and boot to linux

From this point forward physical access to the server is no longer needed and you can ssh in as the 'reddit' user remotely if you wish, using a program like [PuTTY](https://www.putty.org/).


### Configure DNS for reddit.local

To use your reddit server, you are expected to be able to resolve reddit.local and https://reddit.local. First, find the ip address of your saidit server by running:

    $ ifconfig
    # note the 'inet addr' for device 'eth0' or similar

Then update your `hosts` file on your development machine/host OS. For example, on linux with saidit server ip 192.168.1.20  run:

    $ sudo sed -i '1i 192.168.1.20 reddit.local' /etc/hosts

For Windows and MacOS see https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/27350/beginner-geek-how-to-edit-your-hosts-file/


### Install SaidIt

SSH into your saidit server

    $ ssh reddit@reddit.local

Install SaidIt

    $ wget https://raw.github.com/libertysoft3/saidit/master/install-reddit.sh
    $ chmod +x install-reddit.sh
    $ sudo ./install-reddit.sh

You should see success message "Congratulations! reddit is now installed." Do not proceed if installation failed with an error.

Now install some default data including users "saidit" and "automoderator" (password is "password"), default subs, sample posts, sample comments, and sample users.

    $ reddit-run ~/src/reddit/scripts/inject_test_data.py -c 'inject_test_data()'

SaidIt is now fully functional at https://reddit.local aside from chat and search. The [SaidIt Admin Guide](https://github.com/libertysoft3/saidit#saidit-admin-guide) has instructions for how to change your site configuration.

---

## Install Solr for search

SaidIt comes pre-configured for Solr search, but Solr and Tomcat are not installed yet.
 
Install Solr

    $ cd ~
    $ sudo apt-get install tomcat7 tomcat7-admin software-properties-common
    $ wget http://archive.apache.org/dist/lucene/solr/4.10.4/solr-4.10.4.tgz
    $ tar -xvzf solr-4.10.4.tgz
    $ sudo mv solr-4.10.4 /usr/share/solr
    $ sudo chown -R tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/solr/example
 
Setup Solr, install Reddit schema

    $ sudo cp /usr/share/solr/example/webapps/solr.war /usr/share/solr/example/solr/
    $ sudo cp /usr/share/solr/example/lib/ext/* /usr/share/tomcat7/lib/
    $ sudo cp /usr/share/solr/example/resources/log4j.properties /usr/share/tomcat7/lib/
    $ sudo cp src/reddit/solr/schema4.xml /usr/share/solr/example/solr/collection1/conf/schema.xml
    $ sudo chown tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/solr/example/solr/collection1/conf/schema.xml
 
Setup Tomcat for Solr

    $ sudo nano /usr/share/tomcat7/lib/log4j.properties
    # edit to set:
    solr.log=/usr/share/solr
 
    $ sudo nano /etc/tomcat7/Catalina/localhost/solr.xml
    # add content:
    <Context docBase="/usr/share/solr/example/solr/solr.war" debug="0" crossContext="true">
      <Environment name="solr/home" type="java.lang.String" value="/usr/share/solr/example/solr" override="true" />
    </Context>
 
    # have tomcat use port 8983 (see 'solr_port' in example.ini)
    # port 8080 is taken by haproxy
    sudo nano /etc/tomcat7/server.xml
    # edit to set:
    <Connector port="8983" protocol="HTTP/1.1"
 
    # Solr is missing some required stuff:
    $ sudo touch /usr/share/solr/solr.log
    $ sudo mkdir /usr/share/tomcat7/temp
    $ sudo chown tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/solr/solr.log
    $ sudo chown tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/tomcat7/temp
 
    # verify tomcat all good (ignore warnings):
    $ /usr/share/tomcat7/bin/configtest.sh

Start solr:

    $ sudo service tomcat7 restart
    # any errors in here must be fixed
    $ sudo cat /var/log/tomcat7/catalina.out
    # verify working, these should return html pages:
    $ wget 127.0.0.1:8983
    $ wget 127.0.0.1:8983/solr

Index site content and test:

    $ sudo start reddit-job-solr_subreddits
    $ sudo start reddit-job-solr_links
    # do a search on the site, verify working

---

## Optional: SaidIt Chat

In a production environments, irc and related services should be run by a dedicated unix user for security.

### Install unreal irc server

    $ sudo apt-get install make gcc build-essential openssl libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev zlib1g zlib1g-dev zlibc libgcrypt11 libgcrypt11-dev
    # UPDATE to the latest stable release
    $ wget https://www.unrealircd.org/unrealircd4/unrealircd-4.2.3.tar.gz
    $ tar xzvf unrealircd-4.2.3.tar.gz
    $ cd unrealircd-4.2.3/
    $ ./Config
    # Press [Enter] a bunch of times, press space to read the license, wait for configuration tasks
    # For "Do you want to generate an SSL certificate for the IRCd?" respond "No"
    $ make
    $ make install

Configure unreal:

    $ cd ~/unrealircd
    $ cp conf/examples/example.conf conf/unrealircd.conf
    $ nano conf/unrealircd.conf
      # change 'oper bobsmith' to `oper ircoperator`
      # change 'password "test";' to a unique password
      # add 2 more keys to section 'cloak-keys'
      # set 'kline-address' to a valid email address
      # set 'maxchannelsperuser' t0 50
      # in 'allow' block for ip '*@*' change 'maxperip' to 10

Also add a new allow block (after the '*@*' block):

    allow { ip *@127.0.0.1; class clients; maxperip 50000; };

in the final 'set' block 'Server specific configuration', near the end of , add:

    ssl {
        certificate "/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem";
        key "/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key";
    };

Also add the following before `ulines` for anope services:

    link services.reddit.local
    {
        incoming {
                mask *@127.0.0.1;
        };
        outgoing {
                bind-ip *; /* or explicitly an IP */
                hostname services.reddit.local;
                port 6900;
                options { ssl; };
        };
        password "my-services-password-1234";
        class servers;
    };

Also change `ulines` to:

    ulines {
      services.reddit.local;
    };

Setup SSL cert permissions, start unreal, and cleanup:

    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert reddit
    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert irc
    $ ./unrealircd start
    $ rm -rf ~/unrealircd-4.2.3*

### Install anope IRC services

This provides ListServ, ChanServ, etc.

    $ cd ~
    $ sudo apt-get install cmake build-essential
    # update version number to the latest stable release:
    $ wget https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.0.6/anope-2.0.6-source.tar.gz
    $ tar xzvf anope-2.0.6-source.tar.gz
    $ cd anope-2.0.6-source
    $ ./Config
    # press [Enter] a bunch, accept defaults
    $ cd build/
    $ make
    $ make install

Configure anope:

    $ cd ~/services/conf/
    $ cp nickserv.example.conf nickserv.conf
    $ nano nickserv.conf
      # set guestnickprefix = "guest" (for The Lounge autconnect feature)
    $ cp operserv.example.conf operserv.conf
    $ nano operserv.conf
      # NOTE: insecure if you allow outside access to IRC/6667, instead just change maxsessionlimit only and later run:
      #    /msg OperServ exception add +0 127.0.0.1 50000 Allow many localhost TheLounge clients
      # set defaultsessionlimit = 50000, maxsessionlimit = 50000 (since everyone connects from localhost)
    $ cp example.conf services.conf
    $ nano services.conf
      # set uplink::ssl to 'yes'
      # set uplink::port to 6667
      # set uplink::password to 'my-services-password-1234'
      # set serverinfo::name to services.reddit.local
      # comment out the botserv include, search for `botserv.example.conf`
      # change `nickserv.example.conf` to `nickserv.conf`
      # change `operserv.example.conf` to `operserv.conf`
      # change `inspircd20` (in `module`) to `unreal4`

add this oper section near the existing disabled ones:

    oper
    {
        name = "ircoperator"
        type = "Services Root"
        require_oper = yes
    }

start anope and cleanup:

    $ cd ~/services/bin
    $ ./services
    $ rm -rf ~/anope-2.0.6*

### Install TheLounge web IRC client

    $ cd ~
    $ git clone https://github.com/libertysoft3/lounge-autoconnect.git
    $ cd lounge-autoconnect
    # update to the latest autoconnect branch
    $ git checkout v2.4.0-autoconnect
    $ npm install
    $ NODE_ENV=production npm run build
    $ node index config
    # [ESC] : q to quit

configure TheLounge, SSL cert paths may need to be adjusted:

    $ nano ~/.lounge/config.js
    # edit to match:
    #   public: false,
    #   port: 2053,
    #   theme: "themes/zenburn.css",
    #   prefetch: true,
    #   prefetchStorage: true,
    #   prefetchMaxImageSize: 2048,
    #   lockNetwork: true,
    #   defaults { name: "saiditDEV", host: "127.0.0.1", nick: "guest", username: "guest", realname: "Guest", join: "#home" }
    #   https: { enable: true, key: "/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key", certificate: "/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem" }

add an intial user so the server will start:

    $ cd ~/lounge-autoconnect
    $ node index add firstuser
    # use a throwaway password, don't log to disk

start TheLounge:

    $ cd ~/lounge-autoconnect
    $ nohup npm start ./ > thelounge.log 2>&1 &

---

## SaidIt Dev Guide

### Locally mounting VM or server files

    $ sudo apt-get install sshfs
    $ mkdir ~/vm
    $ sshfs reddit@reddit.local:/home/reddit/src/reddit ~/vm
    # optionally unmount it later with:
    $ fusermount -u ~/vm

### Logging

    $ sudo tail -f /var/log/syslog
    > g.log.warning("hello log")

### Profiling

Set `profile_directory` in `development.update` to an absolute path and create the directory first. cProfile results can be [viewed with pstats](https://web.archive.org/web/20180706112510/http://stefaanlippens.net/python_profiling_with_pstats_interactive_mode/).

### Memory by process

    ps aux  | awk '{print $6/1024 " MB\t\t" $11}'  | sort -n

---

## SaidIt Admin Guide

### Updating configuration

    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ nano development.update
    $ make ini
    $ sudo reddit-restart

Override `example.ini` settings in `development.update`. Changes to section `[live_config]` can be applied with `reddit-flush` rather than `reddit-restart`.

### Updating/refreshing CSS and static assets

For production environments where `uncompressedJS = false`

    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ ./refresh-css.sh

### Set the default subs

    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ paster shell run.ini
    # paste the following, hit enter:
    from r2.models import *
    srs = [Subreddit._by_name(n) for n in ("pics", "videos", "science", "technology")]
    LocalizedDefaultSubreddits.set_global_srs(srs)
    LocalizedFeaturedSubreddits.set_global_srs([Subreddit._by_name('pics')])
    exit()

### Automoderator

Create a user and set `automoderator_account` in `development.update`

### Production configuration

SaidIt

- `development.update` settings
  - debug = false
  - uncompressedJS = false
  - db_pass = not-password, and update it in /etc/cron.d/reddit as well
  - Change the `[secrets]` section
- Use the gunicorn application server not paster. Lets you easily set the # of processes that you want. Edit `/etc/init/reddit-paster.conf` and `workers` in `development.update`. Run `$ sudo service reddit-paster stop` before changing the service and `$ sudo initctl reload-configuration` after.
- Change the password for installer created users `saidit` and `automoderator` (default password is 'password')
- If you want email, install something like postfix and enable `reddit-job-email` in `/etc/cron.d/reddit`

OS

- Ensure swap space is configured, check `$ free -h`
- Make sure you OS file limits are high, want > 1024 for `$ ulimit -Hn` and `$ ulimit -Sn`
- Configure fail2ban
- Configure the firewall, need at least ports 22 and 443 open

### Certbot/LetsEncrypt SSL Certificates

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:certbot/certbot
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install certbot
    $ sudo certbot certonly --manual --preferred-challenges dns -d you.net -d www.you.net -d m.you.net -d oauth.you.net
    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert reddit
    $ sudo usermod -aG ssl-cert irc
    $ sudo chown -h reddit:ssl-cert /etc/letsencrypt/live/you.net/privkey.pem
    $ sudo chmod g+r /etc/letsencrypt/live/you.net/privkey.pem

Re-configure your services for your new cert:

    /etc/nginx/sites-available/reddit-ssl
    /etc/reddit/.lounge/config.js
    /unrealircd/conf/unrealircd.conf

Renew your cert every 90 days:

    $ sudo certbot renew

### SSL upgrade, for improved "Suggest Title" compatibility

#### Upgrade curl

Ubuntu 14 comes with curl 7.35.0. Upgrade it for improved SSL compatibility, particularly for "suggest title" and other remote fetching.

    $ sudo apt-get remove curl libcurl3
    $ sudo apt-get install build-essential
    # substitute version from https://curl.haxx.se/download.html
    $ wget https://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.65.1.tar.bz2
    $ tar -xvjf curl-7.65.1.tar.bz2
    $ cd curl-7.65.1
    $ ./configure --prefix=/usr
    $ make
    $ sudo make install
    $ sudo ldconfig
    $ curl --version
    $ cd ..
    $ rm -rf curl-7.65.1*

#### Upgrade python

Ubuntu 14 LTS provides python 2.7.6 but it's upgradable to at least 2.7.16 which modernizes SSL support.

WARNING: this currently breaks Cython dependencies in reddit PPAs/repos, so `install-reddit.sh` will fail with this upgrade in place. Don't upgrade until you have completed installation.

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:jonathonf/python-2.7
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install python2.7
    $ python --version

#### Rebuild reddit open source

    $ sudo reddit-stop
    $ sudo reddit-flush
    $ sudo apt-get install python-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev zlib1g-dev
    $ cd ~/src/reddit/r2
    $ python setup.py build
    $ sudo python setup.py develop
    $ make clean
    $ make
    $ sudo reddit-start

---

## Additional documentation

* https://github.com/libertysoft3/saidit/wiki
* [r/RedditOpenSource](https://www.reddit.com/r/RedditOpenSource)
* [r/redditdev](https://www.reddit.com/r/redditdev)

## See also

* [r/RedditAlternatives](https://www.reddit.com/r/RedditAlternatives)
